Hello and welcome back to the course on
R programming. Today we're going to
take a short break from learning a new
element of R coding and we'll take some
time to learn how to use the console so
it's going to be a quick tutorial but
hopefully it's going to be quite an
insightful one. So this is our studio and
so far we've been used to utilizing this
area to write out code and then executed
whether it's line-by-line or several
lines at a time and then all of our
variables were here and some elements
would be illustrated over here, so let's
have a look at an example. Let's say I
want to create a variable which is X and
I want to place the value 5 into that
variable. If I execute this line, what you
can see is this code has been copied
into the console. It has been run and a
variable has appeared here with value 5. Now if you
want to print x, I just type in x and
execute this line and there go, this code
once again has been copied here and the
value has been printed out. So naturally
you're probably asking this question, why
are all the lines always copy from here
to here?
Well the reason for that is that our
studio is an environment that has been
created to make your work in R more
pleasurable and also aesthetically more
pleasing and also so that you can save
things that basically more efficient
than just working in R itself. So as
you remember, when we were installing R.
We installed R and then we installed
R studio on top of that. So that means
that you could hypothetically use R by
itself but R studio and actually many
people do that and there are other
environments that allow you to use R.
Our city is just one of them and what
R studio does is it creates this area
over here where you can write your
code, you can save your files and then
everything you're right and executed
actually copies into the console and so
what that means is that you can write
code in the console by itself avoiding
this area over here. So let's have a look
at that, let's say I want to create a new
variable which is Y and I want to put
the value 4 into that variable. So I'll
just type it right here in the console
and I'll execute this
line. As you can see the variable has
appeared, we've got a variable Y with the
value of 4. This line is here just like
with the x variable. The only difference is that
we don't have anything relating to Y
at all in this area over here. That's
quite interesting. Now let's try print
out, to the y variable that let me print
Y execute this line. There you go, it we
can see that Y is equal to four so
basically you could type up all your
code here and avoid this part and you
would get the same result.
The only thing is that, it won't be
reproducible so you wouldn't be able to
save your code like we do here. So if we
want to save a file we just click here
and we can save our file and then we
can load it later and we'll have that
same code saved. If you type it up in the
console then it isn't that convenient
but at the same time what this
illustrates is it illustrates how R
studio works and what exactly is
happening. So it took us quite a few
tutorials to get here I know but and
some courses out there will throw you
right away into the deep end they'll
explain all this about the console but I
think this is a great approach that we
now know how to use R studio in
general and now we know this additional
thing about the console. So basically, you
can think of R studio as a shell on
top of R and all it does is it takes
all of this code that you create here
and it copies it into the console and
then it runs it for you as you specify
the lines that should be run.
So there we go, that's how you use the
console so just be aware of that you can
type any code here and this brings us to
the end of today's tutorial. I look
forward to seeing you next time and
until then, happy coding.